docs/docs/custom-types.md, before:

---
title: Custom Types
---

You can define custom types by extending `Type` abstract class. It has several optional methods:

- `convertToDatabaseValue(value: any, platform: Platform): any`

  Converts a value from its JS representation to its database representation of this type.
  By default returns unchanged `value`.

- `convertToJSValue(value: any, platform: Platform): any`

  Converts a value from its database representation to its JS representation of this type.
  By default returns unchanged `value`.

- `toJSON(value: any, platform: Platform): any`

  Converts a value from its JS representation to its serialized JSON form of this type.
  By default uses the runtime value.

- `getColumnType(prop: EntityProperty, platform: Platform): string`

  Gets the SQL declaration snippet for a field of this type.
  By default returns `columnType` of given property.

- `convertToDatabaseValueSQL(key: string, platform: Platform): string`

  Converts a value from its JS representation to its database representation of this type.
  _(added in v4.4.2)_

- `convertToJSValueSQL?(key: string, platform: Platform): string`

  Modifies the SQL expression (identifier, parameter) to convert to a JS value.
  _(added in v4.4.2)_

```typescript
import { Type, Platform, EntityProperty, ValidationError } from '@mikro-orm/core';

export class DateType extends Type<Date, string> {

  convertToDatabaseValue(value: Date | string | undefined, platform: Platform): string {
    if (value instanceof Date) {
      return value.toISOString().substr(0, 10);
    }

    if (!value || value.toString().match(/^\d{4}-\d{2}-\d{2}$/)) {
      return value as string;
    }

    throw ValidationError.invalidType(DateType, value, 'JS');
  }

  convertToJSValue(value: Date | string | undefined, platform: Platform): Date {
    if (!value || value instanceof Date) {
      return value as Date;
    }

    const date = new Date(value);

    if (date.toString() === 'Invalid Date') {
      throw ValidationError.invalidType(DateType, value, 'database');
    }

    return date;
  }

  getColumnType(prop: EntityProperty, platform: Platform) {
    return `date(${prop.length})`;
  }

}
```

Then you can use this type when defining your entity properties:

```typescript
@Entity()
export class FooBar {

  @PrimaryKey()
  id!: number;

  @Property()
  name!: string;

  @Property({ type: DateType, length: 3 })
  born?: Date;

}
```

## Advanced example - PointType and WKT

In this example we will combine mapping values via database as well as during runtime.

> The Point type is part of the Spatial extension of MySQL and enables you to store
> a single location in a coordinate space by using x and y coordinates. You can use
> the Point type to store a longitude/latitude pair to represent a geographic location.

First let's define the `Point` class that will be used to represent the value during runtime:

```ts
export class Point {

  constructor(public latitude: number,
              public longitude: number) { }

}
```

Then the mapping type:

```ts
export class PointType extends Type<Point | undefined, string | undefined> {

  convertToDatabaseValue(value: Point | undefined): string | undefined {
    if (!value) {
      return value;
    }

    return `point(${value.latitude} ${value.longitude})`;
  }

  convertToJSValue(value: string | undefined): Point | undefined {
    const m = value?.match(/point\((-?\d+(\.\d+)?) (-?\d+(\.\d+)?)\)/i);

    if (!m) {
      return undefined;
    }

    return new Point(+m[1], +m[3]);
  }

  convertToJSValueSQL(key: string) {
    return `ST_AsText(${key})`;
  }

  convertToDatabaseValueSQL(key: string) {
    return `ST_PointFromText(${key})`;
  }

  getColumnType(): string {
    return 'point';
  }

}
```

Now let's define an entity:

```ts
@Entity()
export class Location {

  @PrimaryKey()
  id!: number;

  @Property({ type: PointType })
  point?: Point;

}
```

...and use it:

```ts
const loc = new Location();
loc.point = new Point(1.23, 4.56);
await em.persist(loc).flush();
em.clear();

const loc1 = await em.findOneOrFail(Location, loc.id);

// update it
loc1.point = new Point(2.34, 9.87);
await em.flush();
```

This will result in following queries:

```sql
begin
insert into `location` (`point`) values (ST_PointFromText('point(1.23 4.56)'))
commit

select `e0`.*, ST_AsText(`e0`.point) as point from `location` as `e0` where `e0`.`id` = ? limit ?

begin
update `location` set `point` = ST_PointFromText('point(2.34 9.87)') where `id` = ?
commit
```

We do a 2-step conversion here. In the first step, we convert the Point object into
a string representation before saving to the database (in the convertToDatabaseValue
method) and back into an object after fetching the value from the database (in the
convertToJSValue method).

The format of the string representation format is called Well-known text (WKT). The
advantage of this format is, that it is both human readable and parsable by MySQL.

Internally, MySQL stores geometry values in a binary format that is not identical to
the WKT format. So, we need to let MySQL transform the WKT representation into its
internal format.

This is where the `convertToJSValueSQL` and `convertToDatabaseValueSQL` methods come
into play.

This methods wrap a sql expression (the WKT representation of the Point) into MySQL
functions ST_PointFromText and ST_AsText which convert WKT strings to and from the
internal format of MySQL.

> When using DQL queries, the `convertToJSValueSQL` and `convertToDatabaseValueSQL` methods
> only apply to identification variables and path expressions in SELECT clauses. Expressions
> in WHERE clauses are not wrapped!

## Types provided by MikroORM

There are few types provided by MikroORM. All of them aim to provide similar
experience among all the drivers, even if the particular feature is not supported
out of box by the driver.

### ArrayType

In PostgreSQL and MongoDB, it uses native arrays, otherwise it concatenates the
values into string separated by commas. This means that you can't use values that
contain comma with the `ArrayType` (but you can create custom array type that will
handle this case, e.g. by using different separator).

By default array of strings is returned from the type. You can also have arrays
of numbers or other data types - to do so, you will need to implement custom
`hydrate` method that is used for converting the array values to the right type.

> `ArrayType` will be used automatically if `type` is set to `array` (default behaviour
> of reflect-metadata) or `string[]` or `number[]` (either manually or via ts-morph).
> In case of `number[]` it will automatically handle the conversion to numbers.
> This means that the following examples would both have the `ArrayType` used
> automatically (but with reflect-metadata we would have a string array for both
> unless we specify the type manually as `type: 'number[]')

```typescript
@Property({ type: ArrayType, nullable: true })
stringArray?: string[];

@Property({ type: new ArrayType(i => +i), nullable: true })
numericArray?: number[];
```

### BigIntType

You can use `BigIntType` to support `bigint`s. By default, it will represent the
value as a `string`.

```typescript
@PrimaryKey({ type: BigIntType })
id: string;
```

### BlobType

Blob type can be used to store binary data in the database.

> `BlobType` will be used automatically if you specify the type hint as `Buffer`.
> This means that the following example should work even without the explicit
> `type: BlobType` option (with both reflect-metadata and ts-morph providers).

```typescript
@Property({ type: BlobType, nullable: true })
blob?: Buffer;
```

### JsonType

To store objects we can use `JsonType`. As some drivers are handling objects
automatically and some don't, this type will handle the serialization in a driver
independent way (calling `parse` and `stringify` only when needed).

```typescript
@Property({ type: JsonType, nullable: true })
object?: { foo: string; bar: number };
```

### DateType

To store dates without time information, we can use `DateType`. It does use `date`
column type and maps it to the `Date` object.

```typescript
@Property({ type: DateType, nullable: true })
born?: Date;
```

### TimeType

As opposed to the `DateType`, to store only the time information, we can use
`TimeType`. It will use the `time` column type, the runtime type is string.

```typescript
@Property({ type: TimeType, nullable: true })
bornTime?: string;
```

Commit message:

docs: add note about stateful custom types and `customType` option
Related: #2489

docs/docs/custom-types.md, after:

---
title: Custom Types
---

You can define custom types by extending `Type` abstract class. It has several optional methods:

- `convertToDatabaseValue(value: any, platform: Platform): any`

  Converts a value from its JS representation to its database representation of this type.
  By default returns unchanged `value`.

- `convertToJSValue(value: any, platform: Platform): any`

  Converts a value from its database representation to its JS representation of this type.
  By default returns unchanged `value`.

- `toJSON(value: any, platform: Platform): any`

  Converts a value from its JS representation to its serialized JSON form of this type.
  By default uses the runtime value.

- `getColumnType(prop: EntityProperty, platform: Platform): string`

  Gets the SQL declaration snippet for a field of this type.
  By default returns `columnType` of given property.

- `convertToDatabaseValueSQL(key: string, platform: Platform): string`

  Converts a value from its JS representation to its database representation of this type.
  _(added in v4.4.2)_

- `convertToJSValueSQL?(key: string, platform: Platform): string`

  Modifies the SQL expression (identifier, parameter) to convert to a JS value.
  _(added in v4.4.2)_

```typescript
import { Type, Platform, EntityProperty, ValidationError } from '@mikro-orm/core';

export class DateType extends Type<Date, string> {

  convertToDatabaseValue(value: Date | string | undefined, platform: Platform): string {
    if (value instanceof Date) {
      return value.toISOString().substr(0, 10);
    }

    if (!value || value.toString().match(/^\d{4}-\d{2}-\d{2}$/)) {
      return value as string;
    }

    throw ValidationError.invalidType(DateType, value, 'JS');
  }

  convertToJSValue(value: Date | string | undefined, platform: Platform): Date {
    if (!value || value instanceof Date) {
      return value as Date;
    }

    const date = new Date(value);

    if (date.toString() === 'Invalid Date') {
      throw ValidationError.invalidType(DateType, value, 'database');
    }

    return date;
  }

  getColumnType(prop: EntityProperty, platform: Platform) {
    return `date(${prop.length})`;
  }

}
```

Then you can use this type when defining your entity properties:

```typescript
@Entity()
export class FooBar {

  @PrimaryKey()
  id!: number;

  @Property()
  name!: string;

  @Property({ type: DateType, length: 3 })
  born?: Date;

}
```

If our type implementation is stateless, e.g. if we want the type to behave 
differently for each property, we can use `customType` option and provide an
instance of the type:

```ts
@Property({ customType: new MyDateType('DD-MM-YYYY') })
born?: string;
```

## Advanced example - PointType and WKT

In this example we will combine mapping values via database as well as during runtime.

> The Point type is part of the Spatial extension of MySQL and enables you to store
> a single location in a coordinate space by using x and y coordinates. You can use
> the Point type to store a longitude/latitude pair to represent a geographic location.

First let's define the `Point` class that will be used to represent the value during runtime:

```ts
export class Point {

  constructor(public latitude: number,
              public longitude: number) { }

}
```

Then the mapping type:

```ts
export class PointType extends Type<Point | undefined, string | undefined> {

  convertToDatabaseValue(value: Point | undefined): string | undefined {
    if (!value) {
      return value;
    }

    return `point(${value.latitude} ${value.longitude})`;
  }

  convertToJSValue(value: string | undefined): Point | undefined {
    const m = value?.match(/point\((-?\d+(\.\d+)?) (-?\d+(\.\d+)?)\)/i);

    if (!m) {
      return undefined;
    }

    return new Point(+m[1], +m[3]);
  }

  convertToJSValueSQL(key: string) {
    return `ST_AsText(${key})`;
  }

  convertToDatabaseValueSQL(key: string) {
    return `ST_PointFromText(${key})`;
  }

  getColumnType(): string {
    return 'point';
  }

}
```

Now let's define an entity:

```ts
@Entity()
export class Location {

  @PrimaryKey()
  id!: number;

  @Property({ type: PointType })
  point?: Point;

}
```

...and use it:

```ts
const loc = new Location();
loc.point = new Point(1.23, 4.56);
await em.persist(loc).flush();
em.clear();

const loc1 = await em.findOneOrFail(Location, loc.id);

// update it
loc1.point = new Point(2.34, 9.87);
await em.flush();
```

This will result in following queries:

```sql
begin
insert into `location` (`point`) values (ST_PointFromText('point(1.23 4.56)'))
commit

select `e0`.*, ST_AsText(`e0`.point) as point from `location` as `e0` where `e0`.`id` = ? limit ?

begin
update `location` set `point` = ST_PointFromText('point(2.34 9.87)') where `id` = ?
commit
```

We do a 2-step conversion here. In the first step, we convert the Point object into
a string representation before saving to the database (in the convertToDatabaseValue
method) and back into an object after fetching the value from the database (in the
convertToJSValue method).

The format of the string representation format is called Well-known text (WKT). The
advantage of this format is, that it is both human readable and parsable by MySQL.

Internally, MySQL stores geometry values in a binary format that is not identical to
the WKT format. So, we need to let MySQL transform the WKT representation into its
internal format.

This is where the `convertToJSValueSQL` and `convertToDatabaseValueSQL` methods come
into play.

This methods wrap a sql expression (the WKT representation of the Point) into MySQL
functions ST_PointFromText and ST_AsText which convert WKT strings to and from the
internal format of MySQL.

> When using DQL queries, the `convertToJSValueSQL` and `convertToDatabaseValueSQL` methods
> only apply to identification variables and path expressions in SELECT clauses. Expressions
> in WHERE clauses are not wrapped!

## Types provided by MikroORM

There are few types provided by MikroORM. All of them aim to provide similar
experience among all the drivers, even if the particular feature is not supported
out of box by the driver.

### ArrayType

In PostgreSQL and MongoDB, it uses native arrays, otherwise it concatenates the
values into string separated by commas. This means that you can't use values that
contain comma with the `ArrayType` (but you can create custom array type that will
handle this case, e.g. by using different separator).

By default array of strings is returned from the type. You can also have arrays
of numbers or other data types - to do so, you will need to implement custom
`hydrate` method that is used for converting the array values to the right type.

> `ArrayType` will be used automatically if `type` is set to `array` (default behaviour
> of reflect-metadata) or `string[]` or `number[]` (either manually or via ts-morph).
> In case of `number[]` it will automatically handle the conversion to numbers.
> This means that the following examples would both have the `ArrayType` used
> automatically (but with reflect-metadata we would have a string array for both
> unless we specify the type manually as `type: 'number[]')

```typescript
@Property({ type: ArrayType, nullable: true })
stringArray?: string[];

@Property({ type: new ArrayType(i => +i), nullable: true })
numericArray?: number[];
```

### BigIntType

You can use `BigIntType` to support `bigint`s. By default, it will represent the
value as a `string`.

```typescript
@PrimaryKey({ type: BigIntType })
id: string;
```

### BlobType

Blob type can be used to store binary data in the database.

> `BlobType` will be used automatically if you specify the type hint as `Buffer`.
> This means that the following example should work even without the explicit
> `type: BlobType` option (with both reflect-metadata and ts-morph providers).

```typescript
@Property({ type: BlobType, nullable: true })
blob?: Buffer;
```

### JsonType

To store objects we can use `JsonType`. As some drivers are handling objects
automatically and some don't, this type will handle the serialization in a driver
independent way (calling `parse` and `stringify` only when needed).

```typescript
@Property({ type: JsonType, nullable: true })
object?: { foo: string; bar: number };
```

### DateType

To store dates without time information, we can use `DateType`. It does use `date`
column type and maps it to the `Date` object.

```typescript
@Property({ type: DateType, nullable: true })
born?: Date;
```

### TimeType

As opposed to the `DateType`, to store only the time information, we can use
`TimeType`. It will use the `time` column type, the runtime type is string.

```typescript
@Property({ type: TimeType, nullable: true })
bornTime?: string;
```
