docs/docs/entity-manager.md, before:

---
title: Working with Entity Manager
sidebar_label: Entity Manager
---

## Persist and Flush

There are 2 methods we should first describe to understand how persisting works in MikroORM: 
`em.persist()` and `em.flush()`.

`em.persist(entity)` is used to mark new entities for future persisting. 
It will make the entity managed by given `EntityManager` and once `flush` will be called, it 
will be written to the database. 

To understand `flush`, lets first define what managed entity is: An entity is managed if 
it’s fetched from the database (via `em.find()`, `em.findOne()` or via other managed entity) 
or registered as new through `em.persist()`.

`em.flush()` will go through all managed entities, compute appropriate change sets and 
perform according database queries. As an entity loaded from database becomes managed 
automatically, you do not have to call persist on those, and flush is enough to update 
them.

```typescript
const book = await orm.em.findOne(Book, 1);
book.title = 'How to persist things...';

// no need to persist `book` as its already managed by the EM
await orm.em.flush();
```

## Persisting and Cascading

To save entity state to database, you need to persist it. Persist determines 
whether to use `insert` or `update` and computes appropriate change-set. Entity references
that are not persisted yet (does not have identifier) will be cascade persisted automatically. 

```typescript
// use constructors in your entities for required parameters
const author = new Author('Jon Snow', 'snow@wall.st');
author.born = new Date();

const publisher = new Publisher('7K publisher');

const book1 = new Book('My Life on The Wall, part 1', author);
book1.publisher = publisher;
const book2 = new Book('My Life on The Wall, part 2', author);
book2.publisher = publisher;
const book3 = new Book('My Life on The Wall, part 3', author);
book3.publisher = publisher;

// just persist books, author and publisher will be automatically cascade persisted
await orm.em.persistAndFlush([book1, book2, book3]);

// or one by one
orm.em.persist(book1);
orm.em.persist(book2);
orm.em.persist(book3); 
await orm.em.flush(); // flush everything to database at once
```

## Fetching Entities with EntityManager

To fetch entities from database you can use `find()` and `findOne()` of `EntityManager`: 

Example:

```typescript
const author = await orm.em.findOne(Author, '...id...');
const books = await orm.em.find(Book, {});

for (const author of authors) {
  console.log(author.name); // Jon Snow

  for (const book of author.books) {
    console.log(book.title); // initialized
    console.log(book.author.isInitialized()); // true
    console.log(book.author.id);
    console.log(book.author.name); // Jon Snow
    console.log(book.publisher); // just reference
    console.log(book.publisher.isInitialized()); // false
    console.log(book.publisher.id);
    console.log(book.publisher.name); // undefined
  }
}
```

To populate entity relations, you can use `populate` parameter.

```typescript
const books = await orm.em.find(Book, { foo: 1 }, ['author.friends']);
```

You can also use `em.populate()` helper to populate relations (or to ensure they 
are fully populated) on already loaded entities. This is also handy when loading 
entities via `QueryBuilder`:

```typescript
const authors = await orm.em.createQueryBuilder(Author).select('*').getResult();
await em.populate(authors, ['books.tags']);

// now your Author entities will have `books` collections populated, 
// as well as they will have their `tags` collections populated.
console.log(authors[0].books[0].tags[0]); // initialized BookTag
```

### Conditions Object (`FilterQuery<T>`)

Querying entities via conditions object (`where` in `em.find(Entity, where: FilterQuery<T>)`) 
supports many different ways:

```typescript
// search by entity properties
const users = await orm.em.find(User, { firstName: 'John' });

// for searching by reference you can use primary key directly
const id = 1;
const users = await orm.em.find(User, { organization: id });

// or pass unpopulated reference (including `Reference` wrapper)
const ref = await orm.em.getReference(Organization, id);
const users = await orm.em.find(User, { organization: ref });

// fully populated entities as also supported
const ent = await orm.em.findOne(Organization, id);
const users = await orm.em.find(User, { organization: ent });

// complex queries with operators
const users = await orm.em.find(User, { $and: [{ id: { $nin: [3, 4] } }, { id: { $gt: 2 } }] });

// you can also search for array of primary keys directly
const users = await orm.em.find(User, [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]);

// and in findOne all of this works, plus you can search by single primary key
const user1 = await orm.em.findOne(User, 1);
```

As you can see in the fifth example, one can also use operators like `$and`, `$or`, `$gte`, 
`$gt`, `$lte`, `$lt`, `$in`, `$nin`, `$eq`, `$ne`, `$like`, `$re`. More about that can be found in 
[Query Conditions](query-conditions.md) section. 

#### Mitigating `Type instantiation is excessively deep and possibly infinite.ts(2589)` error

Sometimes you might be facing TypeScript errors caused by too complex query for it to 
properly infer all types. Usually it can be solved by providing the type argument 
explicitly.

You can also opt in to use repository instead, as there the type inference should not be
problematic. 

> As a last resort, you can always type cast the query to `any`.

```typescript
const books = await orm.em.find<Book>(Book, { ... your complex query ... });
// or
const books = await orm.em.getRepository(Book).find({ ... your complex query ... });
// or
const books = await orm.em.find<any>(Book, { ... your complex query ... }) as Book[];
```

Another problem you might be facing is `RangeError: Maximum call stack size exceeded` error 
thrown during TypeScript compilation (usually from file `node_modules/typescript/lib/typescript.js`).
The solution to this is the same, just provide the type argument explicitly.

### Searching by referenced entity fields

You can also search by referenced entity properties. Simply pass nested where condition like 
this and all requested relationships will be automatically joined. Currently it will only join 
them so you can search and sort by those. To populate entities, do not forget to pass the populate 
parameter as well. 

```typescript
// find author of a book that has tag specified by name
const author = await orm.em.findOne(Author, { books: { tags: { name: 'Tag name' } } });
console.log(author.books.isInitialized()); // false, as it only works for query and sort

const author = await orm.em.findOne(Author, { books: { tags: { name: 'Tag name' } } }, ['books.tags']);
console.log(author.books.isInitialized()); // true, because it was populated
console.log(author.books[0].tags.isInitialized()); // true, because it was populated
console.log(author.books[0].tags[0].isInitialized()); // true, because it was populated
```

> This feature is fully available only for SQL drivers. In MongoDB always you need to 
> query from the owning side - so in the example above, first load book tag by name,
> then associated book, then the author. Another option is to denormalize the schema.  

### Fetching Partial Entities

> This feature is supported only for `SELECT_IN` loading strategy.

When fetching single entity, you can choose to select only parts of an entity via `options.fields`:

```ts
const author = await orm.em.findOne(Author, '...', { fields: ['name', 'born'] });
console.log(author.id); // PK is always selected
console.log(author.name); // Jon Snow
console.log(author.email); // undefined
```

From v4.4 it is also possible to specify fields for nested relations:

```ts
const author = await orm.em.findOne(Author, '...', { fields: ['name', 'books.title', 'books.author', 'books.price'] });
```

Or with an alternative object syntax:

```ts
const author = await orm.em.findOne(Author, '...', { fields: ['name', { books: ['title', 'author', 'price'] }] });
```

It is also possible to use multiple levels:

```ts
const author = await orm.em.findOne(Author, '...', { fields: ['name', { books: ['title', 'price', 'author', { author: ['email'] }] }] });
```

Primary keys are always selected even if you omit them. On the other hand, you are responsible 
for selecting the FKs - if you omit such property, the relation might not be loaded properly.
In the following example the books would not be linked the author, because we did not specify 
the `books.author` field to be loaded.

```ts
// this will load both author and book entities, but they won't be connected due to the missing FK in select
const author = await orm.em.findOne(Author, '...', { fields: ['name', { books: ['title', 'price'] });
```

> Same problem can occur in mongo with M:N collections - those are stored as array property 
> on the owning entity, so you need to make sure to mark such properties too.

### Fetching Paginated Results

If you are going to paginate your results, you can use `em.findAndCount()` that will return
total count of entities before applying limit and offset.

```typescript
const [authors, count] = await orm.em.findAndCount(Author, { ... }, { limit: 10, offset: 50 });
console.log(authors.length); // based on limit parameter, e.g. 10
console.log(count); // total count, e.g. 1327
```

### Handling Not Found Entities

When you call `em.findOne()` and no entity is found based on your criteria, `null` will be 
returned. If you rather have an `Error` instance thrown, you can use `em.findOneOrFail()`:

```typescript
const author = await orm.em.findOne(Author, { name: 'does-not-exist' });
console.log(author === null); // true

try {
  const author = await orm.em.findOneOrFail(Author, { name: 'does-not-exist' });
  // author will be always found here
} catch (e) {
  console.error('Not found', e);
}
```

You can customize the error either globally via `findOneOrFailHandler` option, or locally via 
`failHandler` option in `findOneOrFail` call.

```typescript
try {
  const author = await orm.em.findOneOrFail(Author, { name: 'does-not-exist' }, {
    failHandler: (entityName: string, where: Record<string, any> | IPrimaryKey) => new Error(`Failed: ${entityName} in ${util.inspect(where)}`)
  });
} catch (e) {
  console.error(e); // your custom error
}
```

### Using custom SQL fragments

It is possible to use any SQL fragment in your `WHERE` query or `ORDER BY` clause:

> The `expr()` helper is an identity function - all it does is to return its parameter.
> We can use it to bypass the strict type checks in `FilterQuery`.

```ts
const users = await orm.em.find(User, { [expr('lower(email)')]: 'foo@bar.baz' }, {
  orderBy: { [`(point(loc_latitude, loc_longitude) <@> point(0, 0))`]: 'ASC' },
});
```

This will produce following query:

```sql
select `e0`.* 
from `user` as `e0`
where lower(email) = 'foo@bar.baz'
order by (point(loc_latitude, loclongitude) <@> point(0, 0)) asc
```

## Disabling identity map and change set tracking

Sometimes we might want to disable identity map and change set tracking for some query.
This is possible via `disableIdentityMap` option. Behind the scenes, it will create new 
context, load the entities inside that, and clear it afterwards, so the main identity map
will stay clean.

> As opposed to _managed_ entities, such entities are called _detached_. 
> To be able to work with them, you first need to merge them via `em.registerManaged()`. 

```ts
const users = await orm.em.find(User, { email: 'foo@bar.baz' }, {
  disableIdentityMap: true,
  populate: { cars: { brand: true } },
});
users[0].name = 'changed';
await orm.em.flush(); // calling flush have no effect, as the entity is not managed  
```

> Keep in mind that this can also have 
> [negative effect on the performance](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/9259480/entity-framework-mergeoption-notracking-bad-performance).

## Type of Fetched Entities

Both `em.find` and `em.findOne()` methods have generic return types.
All of following examples are equal and will let typescript correctly infer the entity type:

```typescript
const author1 = await orm.em.findOne<Author>(Author.name, '...id...');
const author2 = await orm.em.findOne<Author>('Author', '...id...');
const author3 = await orm.em.findOne(Author, '...id...');
```

As the last one is the least verbose, it should be preferred. 

## Entity Repositories

Although you can use `EntityManager` directly, much more convenient way is to use 
[`EntityRepository` instead](https://mikro-orm.io/repositories/). You can register
your repositories in dependency injection container like [InversifyJS](http://inversify.io/)
so you do not need to get them from `EntityManager` each time.

For more examples, take a look at
[`tests/EntityManager.mongo.test.ts`](https://github.com/mikro-orm/mikro-orm/blob/master/tests/EntityManager.mongo.test.ts)
or [`tests/EntityManager.mysql.test.ts`](https://github.com/mikro-orm/mikro-orm/blob/master/tests/EntityManager.mysql.test.ts).

Commit message:

feat(core): add PlainObject class that DTO's can extend to treat class as POJO

docs/docs/entity-manager.md, after:

---
title: Working with Entity Manager
sidebar_label: Entity Manager
---

## Persist and Flush

There are 2 methods we should first describe to understand how persisting works in MikroORM: 
`em.persist()` and `em.flush()`.

`em.persist(entity)` is used to mark new entities for future persisting. 
It will make the entity managed by given `EntityManager` and once `flush` will be called, it 
will be written to the database. 

To understand `flush`, lets first define what managed entity is: An entity is managed if 
it’s fetched from the database (via `em.find()`, `em.findOne()` or via other managed entity) 
or registered as new through `em.persist()`.

`em.flush()` will go through all managed entities, compute appropriate change sets and 
perform according database queries. As an entity loaded from database becomes managed 
automatically, you do not have to call persist on those, and flush is enough to update 
them.

```typescript
const book = await orm.em.findOne(Book, 1);
book.title = 'How to persist things...';

// no need to persist `book` as its already managed by the EM
await orm.em.flush();
```

## Persisting and Cascading

To save entity state to database, you need to persist it. Persist determines 
whether to use `insert` or `update` and computes appropriate change-set. Entity references
that are not persisted yet (does not have identifier) will be cascade persisted automatically. 

```typescript
// use constructors in your entities for required parameters
const author = new Author('Jon Snow', 'snow@wall.st');
author.born = new Date();

const publisher = new Publisher('7K publisher');

const book1 = new Book('My Life on The Wall, part 1', author);
book1.publisher = publisher;
const book2 = new Book('My Life on The Wall, part 2', author);
book2.publisher = publisher;
const book3 = new Book('My Life on The Wall, part 3', author);
book3.publisher = publisher;

// just persist books, author and publisher will be automatically cascade persisted
await orm.em.persistAndFlush([book1, book2, book3]);

// or one by one
orm.em.persist(book1);
orm.em.persist(book2);
orm.em.persist(book3); 
await orm.em.flush(); // flush everything to database at once
```

## Fetching Entities with EntityManager

To fetch entities from database you can use `find()` and `findOne()` of `EntityManager`: 

Example:

```typescript
const author = await orm.em.findOne(Author, '...id...');
const books = await orm.em.find(Book, {});

for (const author of authors) {
  console.log(author.name); // Jon Snow

  for (const book of author.books) {
    console.log(book.title); // initialized
    console.log(book.author.isInitialized()); // true
    console.log(book.author.id);
    console.log(book.author.name); // Jon Snow
    console.log(book.publisher); // just reference
    console.log(book.publisher.isInitialized()); // false
    console.log(book.publisher.id);
    console.log(book.publisher.name); // undefined
  }
}
```

To populate entity relations, you can use `populate` parameter.

```typescript
const books = await orm.em.find(Book, { foo: 1 }, ['author.friends']);
```

You can also use `em.populate()` helper to populate relations (or to ensure they 
are fully populated) on already loaded entities. This is also handy when loading 
entities via `QueryBuilder`:

```typescript
const authors = await orm.em.createQueryBuilder(Author).select('*').getResult();
await em.populate(authors, ['books.tags']);

// now your Author entities will have `books` collections populated, 
// as well as they will have their `tags` collections populated.
console.log(authors[0].books[0].tags[0]); // initialized BookTag
```

### Conditions Object (`FilterQuery<T>`)

Querying entities via conditions object (`where` in `em.find(Entity, where: FilterQuery<T>)`) 
supports many different ways:

```typescript
// search by entity properties
const users = await orm.em.find(User, { firstName: 'John' });

// for searching by reference you can use primary key directly
const id = 1;
const users = await orm.em.find(User, { organization: id });

// or pass unpopulated reference (including `Reference` wrapper)
const ref = await orm.em.getReference(Organization, id);
const users = await orm.em.find(User, { organization: ref });

// fully populated entities as also supported
const ent = await orm.em.findOne(Organization, id);
const users = await orm.em.find(User, { organization: ent });

// complex queries with operators
const users = await orm.em.find(User, { $and: [{ id: { $nin: [3, 4] } }, { id: { $gt: 2 } }] });

// you can also search for array of primary keys directly
const users = await orm.em.find(User, [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]);

// and in findOne all of this works, plus you can search by single primary key
const user1 = await orm.em.findOne(User, 1);
```

As you can see in the fifth example, one can also use operators like `$and`, `$or`, `$gte`, 
`$gt`, `$lte`, `$lt`, `$in`, `$nin`, `$eq`, `$ne`, `$like`, `$re`. More about that can be found in 
[Query Conditions](query-conditions.md) section.

#### Using custom FilterQuery DTO
If you decide to abstract the filter options in your own object then you might run into the problem that the find option does not return the results you'd expect. This is due to the fact that the FilterQuery should be provided as a POJO (Plain Old JS Object `{}`).

If you want to provide your own FilterQuery DTO, then your DTO class should extend the `PlainObject` class. This way MikroORM knows it should be treated as such.

#### Mitigating `Type instantiation is excessively deep and possibly infinite.ts(2589)` error

Sometimes you might be facing TypeScript errors caused by too complex query for it to 
properly infer all types. Usually it can be solved by providing the type argument 
explicitly.

You can also opt in to use repository instead, as there the type inference should not be
problematic. 

> As a last resort, you can always type cast the query to `any`.

```typescript
const books = await orm.em.find<Book>(Book, { ... your complex query ... });
// or
const books = await orm.em.getRepository(Book).find({ ... your complex query ... });
// or
const books = await orm.em.find<any>(Book, { ... your complex query ... }) as Book[];
```

Another problem you might be facing is `RangeError: Maximum call stack size exceeded` error 
thrown during TypeScript compilation (usually from file `node_modules/typescript/lib/typescript.js`).
The solution to this is the same, just provide the type argument explicitly.

### Searching by referenced entity fields

You can also search by referenced entity properties. Simply pass nested where condition like 
this and all requested relationships will be automatically joined. Currently it will only join 
them so you can search and sort by those. To populate entities, do not forget to pass the populate 
parameter as well. 

```typescript
// find author of a book that has tag specified by name
const author = await orm.em.findOne(Author, { books: { tags: { name: 'Tag name' } } });
console.log(author.books.isInitialized()); // false, as it only works for query and sort

const author = await orm.em.findOne(Author, { books: { tags: { name: 'Tag name' } } }, ['books.tags']);
console.log(author.books.isInitialized()); // true, because it was populated
console.log(author.books[0].tags.isInitialized()); // true, because it was populated
console.log(author.books[0].tags[0].isInitialized()); // true, because it was populated
```

> This feature is fully available only for SQL drivers. In MongoDB always you need to 
> query from the owning side - so in the example above, first load book tag by name,
> then associated book, then the author. Another option is to denormalize the schema.  

### Fetching Partial Entities

> This feature is supported only for `SELECT_IN` loading strategy.

When fetching single entity, you can choose to select only parts of an entity via `options.fields`:

```ts
const author = await orm.em.findOne(Author, '...', { fields: ['name', 'born'] });
console.log(author.id); // PK is always selected
console.log(author.name); // Jon Snow
console.log(author.email); // undefined
```

From v4.4 it is also possible to specify fields for nested relations:

```ts
const author = await orm.em.findOne(Author, '...', { fields: ['name', 'books.title', 'books.author', 'books.price'] });
```

Or with an alternative object syntax:

```ts
const author = await orm.em.findOne(Author, '...', { fields: ['name', { books: ['title', 'author', 'price'] }] });
```

It is also possible to use multiple levels:

```ts
const author = await orm.em.findOne(Author, '...', { fields: ['name', { books: ['title', 'price', 'author', { author: ['email'] }] }] });
```

Primary keys are always selected even if you omit them. On the other hand, you are responsible 
for selecting the FKs - if you omit such property, the relation might not be loaded properly.
In the following example the books would not be linked the author, because we did not specify 
the `books.author` field to be loaded.

```ts
// this will load both author and book entities, but they won't be connected due to the missing FK in select
const author = await orm.em.findOne(Author, '...', { fields: ['name', { books: ['title', 'price'] });
```

> Same problem can occur in mongo with M:N collections - those are stored as array property 
> on the owning entity, so you need to make sure to mark such properties too.

### Fetching Paginated Results

If you are going to paginate your results, you can use `em.findAndCount()` that will return
total count of entities before applying limit and offset.

```typescript
const [authors, count] = await orm.em.findAndCount(Author, { ... }, { limit: 10, offset: 50 });
console.log(authors.length); // based on limit parameter, e.g. 10
console.log(count); // total count, e.g. 1327
```

### Handling Not Found Entities

When you call `em.findOne()` and no entity is found based on your criteria, `null` will be 
returned. If you rather have an `Error` instance thrown, you can use `em.findOneOrFail()`:

```typescript
const author = await orm.em.findOne(Author, { name: 'does-not-exist' });
console.log(author === null); // true

try {
  const author = await orm.em.findOneOrFail(Author, { name: 'does-not-exist' });
  // author will be always found here
} catch (e) {
  console.error('Not found', e);
}
```

You can customize the error either globally via `findOneOrFailHandler` option, or locally via 
`failHandler` option in `findOneOrFail` call.

```typescript
try {
  const author = await orm.em.findOneOrFail(Author, { name: 'does-not-exist' }, {
    failHandler: (entityName: string, where: Record<string, any> | IPrimaryKey) => new Error(`Failed: ${entityName} in ${util.inspect(where)}`)
  });
} catch (e) {
  console.error(e); // your custom error
}
```

### Using custom SQL fragments

It is possible to use any SQL fragment in your `WHERE` query or `ORDER BY` clause:

> The `expr()` helper is an identity function - all it does is to return its parameter.
> We can use it to bypass the strict type checks in `FilterQuery`.

```ts
const users = await orm.em.find(User, { [expr('lower(email)')]: 'foo@bar.baz' }, {
  orderBy: { [`(point(loc_latitude, loc_longitude) <@> point(0, 0))`]: 'ASC' },
});
```

This will produce following query:

```sql
select `e0`.* 
from `user` as `e0`
where lower(email) = 'foo@bar.baz'
order by (point(loc_latitude, loclongitude) <@> point(0, 0)) asc
```

## Disabling identity map and change set tracking

Sometimes we might want to disable identity map and change set tracking for some query.
This is possible via `disableIdentityMap` option. Behind the scenes, it will create new 
context, load the entities inside that, and clear it afterwards, so the main identity map
will stay clean.

> As opposed to _managed_ entities, such entities are called _detached_. 
> To be able to work with them, you first need to merge them via `em.registerManaged()`. 

```ts
const users = await orm.em.find(User, { email: 'foo@bar.baz' }, {
  disableIdentityMap: true,
  populate: { cars: { brand: true } },
});
users[0].name = 'changed';
await orm.em.flush(); // calling flush have no effect, as the entity is not managed  
```

> Keep in mind that this can also have 
> [negative effect on the performance](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/9259480/entity-framework-mergeoption-notracking-bad-performance).

## Type of Fetched Entities

Both `em.find` and `em.findOne()` methods have generic return types.
All of following examples are equal and will let typescript correctly infer the entity type:

```typescript
const author1 = await orm.em.findOne<Author>(Author.name, '...id...');
const author2 = await orm.em.findOne<Author>('Author', '...id...');
const author3 = await orm.em.findOne(Author, '...id...');
```

As the last one is the least verbose, it should be preferred. 

## Entity Repositories

Although you can use `EntityManager` directly, much more convenient way is to use 
[`EntityRepository` instead](https://mikro-orm.io/repositories/). You can register
your repositories in dependency injection container like [InversifyJS](http://inversify.io/)
so you do not need to get them from `EntityManager` each time.

For more examples, take a look at
[`tests/EntityManager.mongo.test.ts`](https://github.com/mikro-orm/mikro-orm/blob/master/tests/EntityManager.mongo.test.ts)
or [`tests/EntityManager.mysql.test.ts`](https://github.com/mikro-orm/mikro-orm/blob/master/tests/EntityManager.mysql.test.ts).
