docs/docs/entity-schema.md, before:

---
title: Defining Entities via EntitySchema
---

With `EntitySchema` helper you define the schema programmatically. 

```typescript title="./entities/Book.ts"
export interface Book extends BaseEntity {
  title: string;
  author: Author;
  publisher: Publisher;
  tags: Collection<BookTag>;
}

export const schema = new EntitySchema<Book, BaseEntity>({
  name: 'Book',
  extends: 'BaseEntity',
  properties: {
    title: { type: 'string' },
    author: { reference: 'm:1', entity: 'Author', inversedBy: 'books' },
    publisher: { reference: 'm:1', entity: 'Publisher', inversedBy: 'books' },
    tags: { reference: 'm:n', entity: 'BookTag', inversedBy: 'books', fixedOrder: true },
  },
});
```

When creating new entity instances, you will need to use `em.create()` method that will
create instance of internally created class. 

```typescript
const repo = em.getRepository<Author>('Author');
const author = repo.create('Author', { name: 'name', email: 'email' }); // instance of internal Author class
await repo.persistAndFlush(author);
```

> Using this approach, metadata caching is automatically disabled as it is not needed.

## Using custom entity classes

You can optionally use custom class for entity instances.  

```typescript title="./entities/Author.ts"
export class Author extends BaseEntity {
  name: string;
  email: string;
  age?: number;
  termsAccepted?: boolean;
  identities?: string[];
  born?: Date;
  books = new Collection<Book>(this);
  favouriteBook?: Book;
  version?: number;
  
  constructor(name: string, email: string) {
    this.name = name;
    this.email = email;
  }
}

export const schema = new EntitySchema<Author, BaseEntity>({
  class: Author,
  properties: {
    name: { type: 'string' },
    email: { type: 'string', unique: true },
    age: { type: 'number', nullable: true },
    termsAccepted: { type: 'boolean', default: 0, onCreate: () => false },
    identities: { type: 'string[]', nullable: true },
    born: { type: DateType, nullable: true, length: 3 },
    books: { reference: '1:m', entity: () => 'Book', mappedBy: book => book.author },
    favouriteBook: { reference: 'm:1', type: 'Book' },
    version: { type: 'number', persist: false },
  },
});
```

Then you can use the entity class as usual:

```typescript
const repo = em.getRepository(Author);
const author = new Author('name', 'email');
await repo.persistAndFlush(author);
```

## Using BaseEntity

Do not forget that base entities needs to be discovered just like normal entities. 

```typescript title="./entities/BaseEntity.ts"
export interface BaseEntity {
  id: number;
  createdAt: Date;
  updatedAt: Date;
}

export const schema = new EntitySchema<BaseEntity>({
  name: 'BaseEntity',
  abstract: true,
  properties: {
    id: { type: 'number', primary: true },
    createdAt: { type: 'Date', onCreate: () => new Date(), nullable: true },
    updatedAt: { type: 'Date', onCreate: () => new Date(), onUpdate: () => new Date(), nullable: true },
  },
});
```

## Configuration Reference

The parameter of `EntitySchema` requires to provide either `name` or `class` parameters. 
When using `class`, `extends` will be automatically inferred. You can optionally pass 
these additional parameters:

```typescript
name: string;
class: Constructor<T>;
extends: string;
tableName: string; // alias for `collection: string`
properties: { [K in keyof T & string]: EntityProperty<T[K]> };
indexes: { properties: string | string[]; name?: string; type?: string }[];
uniques: { properties: string | string[]; name?: string }[];
customRepository: () => Constructor<EntityRepository<T>>;
hooks: Partial<Record<HookType, (string & keyof T)[]>>;
abstract: boolean;
```

Every property then needs to contain a type specification - one of `type`/`customType`/`entity`.
Here are some examples of various property types:

```typescript
export enum MyEnum {
  LOCAL = 'local',
  GLOBAL = 'global',
}

export const schema = new EntitySchema<FooBar>({
  name: 'FooBar',
  tableName: 'tbl_foo_bar',
  indexes: [{ name: 'idx1', properties: 'name' }],
  uniques: [{ name: 'unq1', properties: ['name', 'email'] }],
  customRepository: () => FooBarRepository,
  properties: {
    id: { type: 'number', primary: true },
    name: { type: 'string' },
    baz: { reference: '1:1', entity: 'FooBaz', orphanRemoval: true, nullable: true },
    fooBar: { reference: '1:1', entity: 'FooBar', nullable: true },
    publisher: { reference: 'm:1', entity: 'Publisher', inversedBy: 'books' },
    books: { reference: '1:m', entity: () => 'Book', mappedBy: book => book.author },
    tags: { reference: 'm:n', entity: 'BookTag', inversedBy: 'books', fixedOrder: true },
    version: { type: 'Date', version: true, length: 0 },
    type: { enum: true, items: () => MyEnum, default: MyEnum.LOCAL },
  },
});
```

> As a value for `type` you can also use one of `String`/`Number`/`Boolean`/`Date`.

## MongoDB example

```typescript
export class BookTag {
  _id!: ObjectId;
  id!: string;
  name: string;
  books = new Collection<Book>(this);

  constructor(name: string) {
    this.name = name;
  }
}

export const schema = new EntitySchema<BookTag>({
  class: BookTag,
  properties: {
    _id: { type: 'ObjectId', primary: true },
    id: { type: 'string', serializedPrimaryKey: true },
    name: { type: 'string' },
    books: { reference: 'm:n', entity: () => Book, mappedBy: book => book.tags },
  },
});
```

Commit message:

feat(core): add PlainObject class that DTO's can extend to treat class as POJO

docs/docs/entity-schema.md, after:

---
title: Defining Entities via EntitySchema
---

With `EntitySchema` helper you define the schema programmatically. 

```typescript title="./entities/Book.ts"
export interface Book extends BaseEntity {
  title: string;
  author: Author;
  publisher: Publisher;
  tags: Collection<BookTag>;
}

export const schema = new EntitySchema<Book, BaseEntity>({
  name: 'Book',
  extends: 'BaseEntity',
  properties: {
    title: { type: 'string' },
    author: { reference: 'm:1', entity: 'Author', inversedBy: 'books' },
    publisher: { reference: 'm:1', entity: 'Publisher', inversedBy: 'books' },
    tags: { reference: 'm:n', entity: 'BookTag', inversedBy: 'books', fixedOrder: true },
  },
});
```

When creating new entity instances, you will need to use `em.create()` method that will
create instance of internally created class. 

```typescript
const repo = em.getRepository<Author>('Author');
const author = repo.create('Author', { name: 'name', email: 'email' }); // instance of internal Author class
await repo.persistAndFlush(author);
```

> Using this approach, metadata caching is automatically disabled as it is not needed.

#### Using DTO class
It is very common to define a DTO (Data Transfer Object) to validate incoming request bodies and pass the request body data on to the other parts of your application. If you pass the DTO directly to the `create` method it could lead to unexpected results. The data for the `create` method should be provided as a POJO (Plain Old JS Object `{}`).

You can achieve this by letting your DTO class extend the `PlainObject` class. This way MikroORM knows it should be treated as such.

## Using custom entity classes

You can optionally use custom class for entity instances.  

```typescript title="./entities/Author.ts"
export class Author extends BaseEntity {
  name: string;
  email: string;
  age?: number;
  termsAccepted?: boolean;
  identities?: string[];
  born?: Date;
  books = new Collection<Book>(this);
  favouriteBook?: Book;
  version?: number;
  
  constructor(name: string, email: string) {
    this.name = name;
    this.email = email;
  }
}

export const schema = new EntitySchema<Author, BaseEntity>({
  class: Author,
  properties: {
    name: { type: 'string' },
    email: { type: 'string', unique: true },
    age: { type: 'number', nullable: true },
    termsAccepted: { type: 'boolean', default: 0, onCreate: () => false },
    identities: { type: 'string[]', nullable: true },
    born: { type: DateType, nullable: true, length: 3 },
    books: { reference: '1:m', entity: () => 'Book', mappedBy: book => book.author },
    favouriteBook: { reference: 'm:1', type: 'Book' },
    version: { type: 'number', persist: false },
  },
});
```

Then you can use the entity class as usual:

```typescript
const repo = em.getRepository(Author);
const author = new Author('name', 'email');
await repo.persistAndFlush(author);
```

## Using BaseEntity

Do not forget that base entities needs to be discovered just like normal entities. 

```typescript title="./entities/BaseEntity.ts"
export interface BaseEntity {
  id: number;
  createdAt: Date;
  updatedAt: Date;
}

export const schema = new EntitySchema<BaseEntity>({
  name: 'BaseEntity',
  abstract: true,
  properties: {
    id: { type: 'number', primary: true },
    createdAt: { type: 'Date', onCreate: () => new Date(), nullable: true },
    updatedAt: { type: 'Date', onCreate: () => new Date(), onUpdate: () => new Date(), nullable: true },
  },
});
```

## Configuration Reference

The parameter of `EntitySchema` requires to provide either `name` or `class` parameters. 
When using `class`, `extends` will be automatically inferred. You can optionally pass 
these additional parameters:

```typescript
name: string;
class: Constructor<T>;
extends: string;
tableName: string; // alias for `collection: string`
properties: { [K in keyof T & string]: EntityProperty<T[K]> };
indexes: { properties: string | string[]; name?: string; type?: string }[];
uniques: { properties: string | string[]; name?: string }[];
customRepository: () => Constructor<EntityRepository<T>>;
hooks: Partial<Record<HookType, (string & keyof T)[]>>;
abstract: boolean;
```

Every property then needs to contain a type specification - one of `type`/`customType`/`entity`.
Here are some examples of various property types:

```typescript
export enum MyEnum {
  LOCAL = 'local',
  GLOBAL = 'global',
}

export const schema = new EntitySchema<FooBar>({
  name: 'FooBar',
  tableName: 'tbl_foo_bar',
  indexes: [{ name: 'idx1', properties: 'name' }],
  uniques: [{ name: 'unq1', properties: ['name', 'email'] }],
  customRepository: () => FooBarRepository,
  properties: {
    id: { type: 'number', primary: true },
    name: { type: 'string' },
    baz: { reference: '1:1', entity: 'FooBaz', orphanRemoval: true, nullable: true },
    fooBar: { reference: '1:1', entity: 'FooBar', nullable: true },
    publisher: { reference: 'm:1', entity: 'Publisher', inversedBy: 'books' },
    books: { reference: '1:m', entity: () => 'Book', mappedBy: book => book.author },
    tags: { reference: 'm:n', entity: 'BookTag', inversedBy: 'books', fixedOrder: true },
    version: { type: 'Date', version: true, length: 0 },
    type: { enum: true, items: () => MyEnum, default: MyEnum.LOCAL },
  },
});
```

> As a value for `type` you can also use one of `String`/`Number`/`Boolean`/`Date`.

## MongoDB example

```typescript
export class BookTag {
  _id!: ObjectId;
  id!: string;
  name: string;
  books = new Collection<Book>(this);

  constructor(name: string) {
    this.name = name;
  }
}

export const schema = new EntitySchema<BookTag>({
  class: BookTag,
  properties: {
    _id: { type: 'ObjectId', primary: true },
    id: { type: 'string', serializedPrimaryKey: true },
    name: { type: 'string' },
    books: { reference: 'm:n', entity: () => Book, mappedBy: book => book.tags },
  },
});
```
