docs/docs/query-conditions.md, before:

---
title: Smart Query Conditions
---

When you want to make complex queries, you can easily end up with a lot of boilerplate code
full of curly brackets:

```typescript
const res = await orm.em.find(Author, { $and: [
  { id: { $in: [1, 2, 7] }, },
  { id: { $nin: [3, 4] }, },
  { id: { $gt: 5 }, },
  { id: { $lt: 10 }, },
  { id: { $gte: 7 }, },
  { id: { $lte: 8 }, },
  { id: { $ne: 9 }, },
] });
```

For AND condition with single field, you can also do this:

```typescript
const res = await orm.em.find(Author, { 
  id: { 
    $in: [1, 2, 7],
    $nin: [3, 4],
    $gt: 5,
    $lt: 10,
    $gte: 7,
    $lte: 8,
    $ne: 9,
  },
});
```

Another way to do this by including the operator in your keys:

```typescript
const res = await orm.em.find(Author, { $and: [
  { 'id:in': [1, 2, 7] },
  { 'id:nin': [3, 4] },
  { 'id:gt': 5 },
  { 'id:lt': 10 },
  { 'id:gte': 7 },
  { 'id:lte': 8 },
  { 'id:ne': 9 },
] });
```

For comparison operators, you can also use their mathematical symbols:

```typescript
const res = await orm.em.find(Author, { $and: [
  { 'id >': 5 },
  { 'id <': 10 },
  { 'id >=': 7 },
  { 'id <=': 8 },
  { 'id !=': 9 },
] });
```

> Keys with operators like this will cause TypeScript errors as there is no way to support 
> them on the typings side. They are still supported, but you will need to cast the condition
> to `any` to use them. 

There is also shortcut for `$in` - simply provide array as value and it 
will be converted automatically:

```typescript
const res = await orm.em.find(Author, { favouriteBook: [1, 2, 7] });
```

For primary key lookup, you can provide the array directly to `em.find()`:

```typescript
const res = await orm.em.find(Author, [1, 2, 7]);
```

## List of supported operators

### Comparison

| operator | name               | description |
|----------|--------------------|-------------|
| `$eq`	   | equals             | Matches values that are equal to a specified value. |
| `$gt`	   | greater            | Matches values that are greater than a specified value. |
| `$gte`   | greater or equal   | Matches values that are greater than or equal to a specified value. |
| `$in`	   | contains           | Matches any of the values specified in an array. |
| `$lt`	   | lower              | Matches values that are less than a specified value. |
| `$lte`   | lower or equal     | Matches values that are less than or equal to a specified value. |
| `$ne`	   | not equal          | Matches all values that are not equal to a specified value. |
| `$nin`   | not contains       | Matches none of the values specified in an array. |
| `$like`  | like               | Uses LIKE operator |
| `$re`    | regexp             | Uses REGEXP operator |

### Logical

| operator | description |
|----------|-------------|
| `$and`   | Joins query clauses with a logical AND returns all documents that match the conditions of both clauses. |
| `$not`   | Inverts the effect of a query expression and returns documents that do not match the query expression. |
| `$or`    | Joins query clauses with a logical OR returns all documents that match the conditions of either clause. |

Commit message:

feat(query-builder): Add fulltext operator
Add a $fulltext operator that can be used in queries on SQL databases. The syntax used varies per database and is not supported on MongoDB.

Closes: #620

docs/docs/query-conditions.md, after:

---
title: Smart Query Conditions
---

When you want to make complex queries, you can easily end up with a lot of boilerplate code
full of curly brackets:

```typescript
const res = await orm.em.find(Author, { $and: [
  { id: { $in: [1, 2, 7] }, },
  { id: { $nin: [3, 4] }, },
  { id: { $gt: 5 }, },
  { id: { $lt: 10 }, },
  { id: { $gte: 7 }, },
  { id: { $lte: 8 }, },
  { id: { $ne: 9 }, },
] });
```

For AND condition with single field, you can also do this:

```typescript
const res = await orm.em.find(Author, { 
  id: { 
    $in: [1, 2, 7],
    $nin: [3, 4],
    $gt: 5,
    $lt: 10,
    $gte: 7,
    $lte: 8,
    $ne: 9,
  },
});
```

Another way to do this by including the operator in your keys:

```typescript
const res = await orm.em.find(Author, { $and: [
  { 'id:in': [1, 2, 7] },
  { 'id:nin': [3, 4] },
  { 'id:gt': 5 },
  { 'id:lt': 10 },
  { 'id:gte': 7 },
  { 'id:lte': 8 },
  { 'id:ne': 9 },
] });
```

For comparison operators, you can also use their mathematical symbols:

```typescript
const res = await orm.em.find(Author, { $and: [
  { 'id >': 5 },
  { 'id <': 10 },
  { 'id >=': 7 },
  { 'id <=': 8 },
  { 'id !=': 9 },
] });
```

> Keys with operators like this will cause TypeScript errors as there is no way to support 
> them on the typings side. They are still supported, but you will need to cast the condition
> to `any` to use them. 

There is also shortcut for `$in` - simply provide array as value and it 
will be converted automatically:

```typescript
const res = await orm.em.find(Author, { favouriteBook: [1, 2, 7] });
```

For primary key lookup, you can provide the array directly to `em.find()`:

```typescript
const res = await orm.em.find(Author, [1, 2, 7]);
```

## List of supported operators

### Comparison

| operator    | name             | description                                                         |
|-------------|------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `$eq`       | equals           | Matches values that are equal to a specified value.                 |
| `$gt`       | greater          | Matches values that are greater than a specified value.             |
| `$gte`      | greater or equal | Matches values that are greater than or equal to a specified value. |
| `$in`       | contains         | Matches any of the values specified in an array.                    |
| `$lt`       | lower            | Matches values that are less than a specified value.                |
| `$lte`      | lower or equal   | Matches values that are less than or equal to a specified value.    |
| `$ne`       | not equal        | Matches all values that are not equal to a specified value.         |
| `$nin`      | not contains     | Matches none of the values specified in an array.                   |
| `$like`     | like             | Uses LIKE operator.                                                 |
| `$fulltext` | full text        | A driver specific full text search function.                        |
| `$re`       | regexp           | Uses REGEXP operator.                                               |


### Logical

| operator | description |
|----------|-------------|
| `$and`   | Joins query clauses with a logical AND returns all documents that match the conditions of both clauses. |
| `$not`   | Inverts the effect of a query expression and returns documents that do not match the query expression. |
| `$or`    | Joins query clauses with a logical OR returns all documents that match the conditions of either clause. |
