docs/docs/upgrading-v2-to-v3.md, before:

---
title: Upgrading from v2 to v3
---

Following sections describe (hopefully) all breaking changes, most of them might be not valid 
for you, like if you do not use custom `NamingStrategy` implementation, you do not care about
the interface being changed.

## Default value of autoFlush has changed to false

> If you had `autoFlush: false` in your ORM configuration before, you can now remove 
> this line, no changes are needed in your app. 

Default value for `autoFlush` is now `false`. That means you need to call 
`em.flush()` yourself to persist changes into database. You can still change this via ORM's
options to ease the transition but generally it is not recommended as it can cause unwanted
small transactions being created around each `persist`. 

```typescript
orm.em.persist(new Entity()); // no auto-flushing by default
await orm.em.flush();
await orm.em.persist(new Entity(), true); // you can still use second parameter to auto-flush
```

## Reworked entity definition

Now it is no longer needed to merge entities with `IEntity` interface, that was polluting entity's 
interface with internal methods. New interfaces `IdentifiedEntity<T>`, `UuidEntity<T>` and `MongoEntity<T>` 
are introduced, that should be implemented by entities. They are not adding any new properties or methods, 
keeping the entity's interface clean.

`IEntity` interface has been renamed to `AnyEntity<T, PK>` and it no longer has public methods 
like `toJSON()`, `toObject()` or `init()`. One can use `wrap()` method provided by ORM that
will enhance property type when needed with those methods (`await wrap(book.author).init()`). 
To keep all methods available on the entity, you can still use interface merging with 
`WrappedEntity<T, PK>` that both extends `AnyEntity<T, PK>` and defines all those methods.

You will need to mark the entity by implementing one of `*Entity` interfaces:

- `IdEntity<T>` for numeric/string PK on `id` property (`id: number`)
- `UuidEntity<T>` for string PK on `uuid` property (`uuid: string`)
- `MongoEntity<T>` for mongo, where `id: string` and `_id: ObjectId` are required
- `AnyEntity<T, PK>` for other possible properties (fill the PK property name to `PK` 
parameter, e.g.: `AnyEntity<Book, 'myPrimaryProperty'>'`)

To keep all public methods that were part of `IEntity` interface in v2, you can use 
`WrappedEntity<T, PK>` via interface merging:

```typescript
@Entity()
export class Book { ... }
export interface Book extends WrappedEntity<Book, 'id'> { }
```

For more examples, take a look at [defining entities section](defining-entities.md).

## Integrated Knex.js as query builder and runner

`QueryBuilder` now internally uses knex to run all queries. As knex already supports connection 
pooling, this feature comes without any effort. New configuration for pooling is now available

Transactions now require using `em.transactional()` method, previous helpers 
`beginTransaction`/`commit`/`rollback` are now removed.

All transaction management has been removed from `IDatabaseDriver` interface, now EM handles 
this, passing the transaction context (carried by EM, and created by `Connection`) to all 
driver methods. New methods on EM exists: `isInTransaction()` and `getTransactionContext()`.

In postgres driver, it used to be required to pass parameters as indexed dollar sign 
($1, $2, ...), while now knex requires the placeholder to be simple question mark (`?`), 
like in other dialects, so this is now unified with other drivers.

## ManyToMany now uses composite primary key

Previously it was required to have autoincrement primary key for m:n pivot tables. Now this 
has changed. By default, only foreign columns are required and composite key over both of them
is used as primary key.

To preserve stable order of collections, you can force previous behaviour by defining the 
m:n property as `fixedOrder: true`, which will start ordering by `id` column. You can also 
override the order column name via `fixedOrderColumn: 'order'`. 

You can also specify default ordering via `orderBy: { ... }` attribute.

## Strict FilterQuery and smart query conditions

`FilterQuery` now does not allow using smart query operators. You can either cast your condition 
as any or use object syntax instead (instead of `{ 'age:gte': 18 }` use `{ age: { $gte: 18 } }`).

## Logging configuration

Previously to start logging it was required to provide your custom logger. Logger now defaults 
to `console.log()`, and users can specify what namespaces are they interested in via `debug` 
option. `true`/`false` will enable/disable all namespaces.

Available logger namespaces: `'query' | 'query-params' | 'discovery' | 'info'`.

## Removed deprecated fk option from 1:m and m:1 decorators 

Use `mappedBy`/`inversedBy` instead.

## SchemaGenerator.generate() is now async

If you used `SchemaGenerator`, now there is CLI tool you can use instead. Learn more 
in [SchemaGenerator docs](schema-generator.md). To setup CLI, take a look at 
[installation section](installation.md).

## New method on NamingStrategy interface

`getClassName()` is used to find entity class name based on its file name. Now users can 
override the default implementation to accommodate their specific needs.

If you used custom naming strategy, you will either need to implement this method yourself, 
or extend `AbstractNamingStrategy`.

## TypescriptMetadataProvider has been renamed

The name is now `TsMorphMetadataProvider`, there is also newly added `ReflectMetadataProvider`
that uses `reflect-metadata` instead. As `TypescriptMetadataProvider` was the default, no 
changes should be required. 

## Updated mongodb driver

MongoDB driver version 3.3.4 or higher is now required.

## EntityManager.find() now requires where parameter
`EntityManager` has now same `find` method interface aligned with `EntityRepository`, 
`where` parameter is now required. To select all entities, use `em.find(Entity, {})` 
as value.

Commit message:

fix(core): do not set EM to entity until merging [BC] (#270)
Previously all entities had internal reference to the root EM - the one created when
initializing the ORM. Now only managed entities (those merged to the EM, e.g. loaded
from the database) have this internal reference.

To use `assign()` method on new (not managed) entities, you need to provide the `em`
parameter:

```typescript
const book = new Book();
wrap(book).assign(data, { em: orm.em });
```

Closes: #267

docs/docs/upgrading-v2-to-v3.md, after:

---
title: Upgrading from v2 to v3
---

Following sections describe (hopefully) all breaking changes, most of them might be not valid 
for you, like if you do not use custom `NamingStrategy` implementation, you do not care about
the interface being changed.

## Default value of autoFlush has changed to false

> If you had `autoFlush: false` in your ORM configuration before, you can now remove 
> this line, no changes are needed in your app. 

Default value for `autoFlush` is now `false`. That means you need to call 
`em.flush()` yourself to persist changes into database. You can still change this via ORM's
options to ease the transition but generally it is not recommended as it can cause unwanted
small transactions being created around each `persist`. 

```typescript
orm.em.persist(new Entity()); // no auto-flushing by default
await orm.em.flush();
await orm.em.persist(new Entity(), true); // you can still use second parameter to auto-flush
```

## Reworked entity definition

Now it is no longer needed to merge entities with `IEntity` interface, that was polluting entity's 
interface with internal methods. New interfaces `IdentifiedEntity<T>`, `UuidEntity<T>` and `MongoEntity<T>` 
are introduced, that should be implemented by entities. They are not adding any new properties or methods, 
keeping the entity's interface clean.

`IEntity` interface has been renamed to `AnyEntity<T, PK>` and it no longer has public methods 
like `toJSON()`, `toObject()` or `init()`. One can use `wrap()` method provided by ORM that
will enhance property type when needed with those methods (`await wrap(book.author).init()`). 
To keep all methods available on the entity, you can still use interface merging with 
`WrappedEntity<T, PK>` that both extends `AnyEntity<T, PK>` and defines all those methods.

You will need to mark the entity by implementing one of `*Entity` interfaces:

- `IdEntity<T>` for numeric/string PK on `id` property (`id: number`)
- `UuidEntity<T>` for string PK on `uuid` property (`uuid: string`)
- `MongoEntity<T>` for mongo, where `id: string` and `_id: ObjectId` are required
- `AnyEntity<T, PK>` for other possible properties (fill the PK property name to `PK` 
parameter, e.g.: `AnyEntity<Book, 'myPrimaryProperty'>'`)

To keep all public methods that were part of `IEntity` interface in v2, you can use 
`WrappedEntity<T, PK>` via interface merging:

```typescript
@Entity()
export class Book { ... }
export interface Book extends WrappedEntity<Book, 'id'> { }
```

For more examples, take a look at [defining entities section](defining-entities.md).

## Integrated Knex.js as query builder and runner

`QueryBuilder` now internally uses knex to run all queries. As knex already supports connection 
pooling, this feature comes without any effort. New configuration for pooling is now available

Transactions now require using `em.transactional()` method, previous helpers 
`beginTransaction`/`commit`/`rollback` are now removed.

All transaction management has been removed from `IDatabaseDriver` interface, now EM handles 
this, passing the transaction context (carried by EM, and created by `Connection`) to all 
driver methods. New methods on EM exists: `isInTransaction()` and `getTransactionContext()`.

In postgres driver, it used to be required to pass parameters as indexed dollar sign 
($1, $2, ...), while now knex requires the placeholder to be simple question mark (`?`), 
like in other dialects, so this is now unified with other drivers.

## ManyToMany now uses composite primary key

Previously it was required to have autoincrement primary key for m:n pivot tables. Now this 
has changed. By default, only foreign columns are required and composite key over both of them
is used as primary key.

To preserve stable order of collections, you can force previous behaviour by defining the 
m:n property as `fixedOrder: true`, which will start ordering by `id` column. You can also 
override the order column name via `fixedOrderColumn: 'order'`. 

You can also specify default ordering via `orderBy: { ... }` attribute.

## EntityAssigner.assign() requires EM for new entities

Previously all entities had internal reference to the root EM - the one created when 
initializing the ORM. Now only managed entities (those merged to the EM, e.g. loaded 
from the database) have this internal reference. 

To use `assign()` method on new (not managed) entities, you need to provide the `em`
parameter:

```typescript
const book = new Book();
wrap(book).assign(data, { em: orm.em });
```

## Strict FilterQuery and smart query conditions

`FilterQuery` now does not allow using smart query operators. You can either cast your condition 
as any or use object syntax instead (instead of `{ 'age:gte': 18 }` use `{ age: { $gte: 18 } }`).

## Logging configuration

Previously to start logging it was required to provide your custom logger. Logger now defaults 
to `console.log()`, and users can specify what namespaces are they interested in via `debug` 
option. `true`/`false` will enable/disable all namespaces.

Available logger namespaces: `'query' | 'query-params' | 'discovery' | 'info'`.

## Removed deprecated fk option from 1:m and m:1 decorators 

Use `mappedBy`/`inversedBy` instead.

## SchemaGenerator.generate() is now async

If you used `SchemaGenerator`, now there is CLI tool you can use instead. Learn more 
in [SchemaGenerator docs](schema-generator.md). To setup CLI, take a look at 
[installation section](installation.md).

## New method on NamingStrategy interface

`getClassName()` is used to find entity class name based on its file name. Now users can 
override the default implementation to accommodate their specific needs.

If you used custom naming strategy, you will either need to implement this method yourself, 
or extend `AbstractNamingStrategy`.

## TypescriptMetadataProvider has been renamed

The name is now `TsMorphMetadataProvider`, there is also newly added `ReflectMetadataProvider`
that uses `reflect-metadata` instead. As `TypescriptMetadataProvider` was the default, no 
changes should be required. 

## Updated mongodb driver

MongoDB driver version 3.3.4 or higher is now required.

## EntityManager.find() now requires where parameter
`EntityManager` has now same `find` method interface aligned with `EntityRepository`, 
`where` parameter is now required. To select all entities, use `em.find(Entity, {})` 
as value.
