docs/versioned_docs/version-4.0/migrations.md, before:

---
title: Migrations
---

MikroORM has integrated support for migrations via [umzug](https://github.com/sequelize/umzug).
It allows you to generate migrations with current schema differences.

By default, each migration will be all executed inside a transaction, and all of them will 
be wrapped in one master transaction, so if one of them fails, everything will be rolled back. 

## Migration class

Migrations are classes that extend Migration abstract class:

```typescript
export class Migration20191019195930 extends Migration {

  async up(): Promise<void> {
    this.addSql('select 1 + 1');
  }

}
```

To support undoing those changed, you can implement the `down` method, which throws an error by default. 

Migrations are by default wrapped in a transaction. You can override this behaviour on 
per migration basis by implementing the `isTransactional(): boolean` method.

`Configuration` object and driver instance are available in the `Migration` class context.

You can execute queries in the migration via `Migration.execute()` method, which 
will run queries in the same transaction as the rest of the migration. The 
`Migration.addSql()` method also accepts instances of knex. Knex instance can be 
accessed via `Migration.getKnex()`; 

## Initial migration

If you want to start using migrations, and you already have the schema generated, 
you can do so by creating so called initial migration:

> Initial migration can be created only if there are no migrations previously
> generated or executed. 

```sh
npx mikro-orm migration:create --initial
```

This will create the initial migration, containing the schema dump from 
`schema:create` command. The migration will be automatically marked as executed. 

## Configuration

```typescript
await MikroORM.init({
  // default values:
  migrations: {
    tableName: 'mikro_orm_migrations', // name of database table with log of executed transactions
    path: './migrations', // path to the folder with migrations
    pattern: /^[\w-]+\d+\.ts$/, // regex pattern for the migration files
    transactional: true, // wrap each migration in a transaction
    disableForeignKeys: true, // wrap statements with `set foreign_key_checks = 0` or equivalent
    allOrNothing: true, // wrap all migrations in master transaction
    dropTables: true, // allow to disable table dropping
    safe: false, // allow to disable table and column dropping
    emit: 'ts', // migration generation mode
  },
})
```

## Using via CLI

You can use it via CLI: 

```sh
npx mikro-orm migration:create   # Create new migration with current schema diff
npx mikro-orm migration:up       # Migrate up to the latest version
npx mikro-orm migration:down     # Migrate one step down
npx mikro-orm migration:list     # List all executed migrations
npx mikro-orm migration:pending  # List all pending migrations
```

For `migration:up` and `migration:down` commands you can specify `--from` (`-f`), `--to` (`-t`) 
and `--only` (`-o`) options to run only a subset of migrations:

```sh
npx mikro-orm migration:up --from 2019101911 --to 2019102117  # the same as above
npx mikro-orm migration:up --only 2019101923                  # apply a single migration
npx mikro-orm migration:down --to 0                           # migratee down all migrations
```

> To run TS migration files, you will need to [enable `useTsNode` flag](installation.md) 
> in your `package.json`.

## Using the Migrator programmatically

Or you can create a simple script where you initialize MikroORM like this:

```typescript title="./migrate.ts"
import { MikroORM } from '@mikro-orm/core';

(async () => {
  const orm = await MikroORM.init({
    dbName: 'your-db-name',
    // ...
  });

  const migrator = orm.getMigrator();
  await migrator.createMigration(); // creates file Migration20191019195930.ts
  await migrator.up(); // runs migrations up to the latest
  await migrator.up('up-to-name'); // runs migrations up to given version
  await migrator.down('down-to-name'); // runs migrations down to given version
  await migrator.down(); // migrates one step down
  await migrator.down({ to: 0 }); // migrates down to the first version

  await orm.close(true);
})();
```

Then run this script via `ts-node` (or compile it to plain JS and use `node`):

```sh
$ ts-node migrate
```

## Importing migrations statically

If you do not want to dynamically import a folder (e.g. when bundling your code with webpack) you can import migrations
directly.

```typescript
import { Migration20191019195930 } from '../migrations/Migration20191019195930.ts';

await MikroORM.init({
  migrations: {
    migrationsList: [
      {
        name: 'Migration20191019195930.ts',
        class: Migration20191019195930,
      },
    ],
  },
});
```

With the help of (webpacks context module api)[https://webpack.js.org/guides/dependency-management/#context-module-api]
we can dynamically import the migrations making it possible to import all files in a folder.

```typescript
import { basename } from 'path';

const migrations = {};

function importAll(r) {
  r.keys().forEach(
    (key) => (migrations[basename(key)] = Object.values(r(key))[0])
  );
}

importAll(require.context('../migrations', false, /\.ts$/));

const migrationsList = Object.keys(migrations).map((migrationName) => ({
  name: migrationName,
  class: migrations[migrationName],
}));

await MikroORM.init({
  migrations: {
    migrationsList,
  },
});
```

## Limitations

### MySQL

There is no way to rollback DDL changes in MySQL. An implicit commit is forced for those 
queries automatically, so transactions are not working as expected. 

- https://github.com/mikro-orm/mikro-orm/issues/217
- https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/implicit-commit.html

[&larr; Back to table of contents](index.md#table-of-contents)

Commit message:

feat(migrations): allow providing transaction context
Closes #851

docs/versioned_docs/version-4.0/migrations.md, after:

---
title: Migrations
---

MikroORM has integrated support for migrations via [umzug](https://github.com/sequelize/umzug).
It allows you to generate migrations with current schema differences.

By default, each migration will be all executed inside a transaction, and all of them will 
be wrapped in one master transaction, so if one of them fails, everything will be rolled back. 

## Migration class

Migrations are classes that extend Migration abstract class:

```typescript
export class Migration20191019195930 extends Migration {

  async up(): Promise<void> {
    this.addSql('select 1 + 1');
  }

}
```

To support undoing those changed, you can implement the `down` method, which throws an error by default. 

Migrations are by default wrapped in a transaction. You can override this behaviour on 
per migration basis by implementing the `isTransactional(): boolean` method.

`Configuration` object and driver instance are available in the `Migration` class context.

You can execute queries in the migration via `Migration.execute()` method, which 
will run queries in the same transaction as the rest of the migration. The 
`Migration.addSql()` method also accepts instances of knex. Knex instance can be 
accessed via `Migration.getKnex()`; 

## Initial migration

If you want to start using migrations, and you already have the schema generated, 
you can do so by creating so called initial migration:

> Initial migration can be created only if there are no migrations previously
> generated or executed. 

```sh
npx mikro-orm migration:create --initial
```

This will create the initial migration, containing the schema dump from 
`schema:create` command. The migration will be automatically marked as executed. 

## Configuration

```typescript
await MikroORM.init({
  // default values:
  migrations: {
    tableName: 'mikro_orm_migrations', // name of database table with log of executed transactions
    path: './migrations', // path to the folder with migrations
    pattern: /^[\w-]+\d+\.ts$/, // regex pattern for the migration files
    transactional: true, // wrap each migration in a transaction
    disableForeignKeys: true, // wrap statements with `set foreign_key_checks = 0` or equivalent
    allOrNothing: true, // wrap all migrations in master transaction
    dropTables: true, // allow to disable table dropping
    safe: false, // allow to disable table and column dropping
    emit: 'ts', // migration generation mode
  },
})
```

## Using via CLI

You can use it via CLI: 

```sh
npx mikro-orm migration:create   # Create new migration with current schema diff
npx mikro-orm migration:up       # Migrate up to the latest version
npx mikro-orm migration:down     # Migrate one step down
npx mikro-orm migration:list     # List all executed migrations
npx mikro-orm migration:pending  # List all pending migrations
```

For `migration:up` and `migration:down` commands you can specify `--from` (`-f`), `--to` (`-t`) 
and `--only` (`-o`) options to run only a subset of migrations:

```sh
npx mikro-orm migration:up --from 2019101911 --to 2019102117  # the same as above
npx mikro-orm migration:up --only 2019101923                  # apply a single migration
npx mikro-orm migration:down --to 0                           # migratee down all migrations
```

> To run TS migration files, you will need to [enable `useTsNode` flag](installation.md) 
> in your `package.json`.

## Using the Migrator programmatically

Or you can create a simple script where you initialize MikroORM like this:

```typescript title="./migrate.ts"
import { MikroORM } from '@mikro-orm/core';

(async () => {
  const orm = await MikroORM.init({
    dbName: 'your-db-name',
    // ...
  });

  const migrator = orm.getMigrator();
  await migrator.createMigration(); // creates file Migration20191019195930.ts
  await migrator.up(); // runs migrations up to the latest
  await migrator.up('up-to-name'); // runs migrations up to given version
  await migrator.down('down-to-name'); // runs migrations down to given version
  await migrator.down(); // migrates one step down
  await migrator.down({ to: 0 }); // migrates down to the first version

  await orm.close(true);
})();
```

Then run this script via `ts-node` (or compile it to plain JS and use `node`):

```sh
$ ts-node migrate
```

## Providing transaction context

In some cases you might want to control the transaction context yourself:

```ts
await orm.em.transactional(async em => {
  await migrator.up({ transaction: em.getTransactionContext() });
});
```

## Importing migrations statically

If you do not want to dynamically import a folder (e.g. when bundling your code with webpack) you can import migrations
directly.

```typescript
import { Migration20191019195930 } from '../migrations/Migration20191019195930.ts';

await MikroORM.init({
  migrations: {
    migrationsList: [
      {
        name: 'Migration20191019195930.ts',
        class: Migration20191019195930,
      },
    ],
  },
});
```

With the help of [webpack's context module api](https://webpack.js.org/guides/dependency-management/#context-module-api)
we can dynamically import the migrations making it possible to import all files in a folder.

```typescript
import { basename } from 'path';

const migrations = {};

function importAll(r) {
  r.keys().forEach(
    (key) => (migrations[basename(key)] = Object.values(r(key))[0])
  );
}

importAll(require.context('../migrations', false, /\.ts$/));

const migrationsList = Object.keys(migrations).map((migrationName) => ({
  name: migrationName,
  class: migrations[migrationName],
}));

await MikroORM.init({
  migrations: {
    migrationsList,
  },
});
```

## Limitations

### MySQL

There is no way to rollback DDL changes in MySQL. An implicit commit is forced for those 
queries automatically, so transactions are not working as expected. 

- https://github.com/mikro-orm/mikro-orm/issues/217
- https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/implicit-commit.html

[&larr; Back to table of contents](index.md#table-of-contents)
