docs/index.md, before:

---
layout: homepage
---

[![NPM version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/mikro-orm.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mikro-orm)
[![Chat on slack](https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-on%20slack-blue.svg)](https://join.slack.com/t/mikroorm/shared_invite/enQtNTM1ODYzMzM4MDk3LTBmZDNlODBhYjcxNGZlMTkyYzJmODAwMDhjODc0ZTM2MzQ2Y2VkOGM0ODYzYTJjMDRiZDdjMmIxYjI2OTY0Y2U)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/mikro-orm.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mikro-orm)
[![Dependency Status](https://david-dm.org/mikro-orm/mikro-orm.svg)](https://david-dm.org/mikro-orm/mikro-orm)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/mikro-orm/mikro-orm.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/mikro-orm/mikro-orm)
[![Coverage Status](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/mikro-orm/mikro-orm.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/mikro-orm/mikro-orm?branch=master)
[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/27999651d3adc47cfa40/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/github/mikro-orm/mikro-orm/maintainability)

MikroORM is TypeScript ORM for Node.js based on Data Mapper, Unit of Work and Identity Map patterns.

Currently it supports MongoDB, MySQL, MariaDB, PostgreSQL and SQLite databases, but more can be 
supported via custom drivers right now. It has first class TypeScript support, while staying back 
compatible with Vanilla JavaScript.

> Heavily inspired by [Doctrine](https://www.doctrine-project.org/) and [Nextras Orm](https://nextras.org/orm/).

## Table of contents

- Overview
  - [Installation & Usage](installation.md)
  - [Defining Entities](defining-entities.md)
  - [Persisting, Cascading and Fetching Entities with `EntityManager`](entity-manager.md)
  - [Using `EntityRepository` instead of `EntityManager`](repositories.md)
- Fundamentals
  - [Identity Map and Request Context](identity-map.md)
  - [Entity References and `Reference<T>` Wrapper](entity-references.md)
  - [Using Entity Constructors](entity-constructors.md)
  - [Modelling Relationships](relationships.md)
  - [Collections](collections.md)
  - [Unit of Work](unit-of-work.md)
  - [Transactions](transactions.md)
  - [Cascading persist and remove](cascading.md)
  - [Deployment](deployment.md)
- Advanced Features
  - [Smart Nested Populate](nested-populate.md)
  - [Smart Query Conditions](query-conditions.md)
  - [Using `QueryBuilder`](query-builder.md)
  - [Serializing](serializing.md)
  - [Updating Entity Values with `Entity.assign()`](entity-helper.md)
  - [Property Validation](property-validation.md)
  - [Lifecycle Hooks](lifecycle-hooks.md)
  - [Naming Strategy](naming-strategy.md)
  - [Metadata Providers](metadata-providers.md)
  - [Metadata Cache](metadata-cache.md)
  - [Debugging](debugging.md)
  - [Schema Generator](schema-generator.md)
  - [Entity Generator](entity-generator.md)
  - [Migrations](migrations.md)
  - [Read Replica Connections](read-connections.md)
- Usage with Different Drivers
  - [Usage with SQL Drivers](usage-with-sql.md)
  - [Usage with MongoDB](usage-with-mongo.md)
- Recipes
  - [Usage with NestJS](usage-with-nestjs.md)
  - [Usage with Vanilla JS](usage-with-js.md)
  - [Creating Custom Driver](custom-driver.md)
  - [Using Multiple Schemas](multiple-schemas.md)
- Example Integrations
  - [Express + MongoDB + TypeScript](https://github.com/mikro-orm/mikro-orm-examples/tree/master/express-ts)
  - [Nest + MySQL + TypeScript](https://github.com/mikro-orm/mikro-orm-examples/tree/master/nest)
  - [RealWorld example app (Nest + MySQL)](https://github.com/mikro-orm/nestjs-realworld-example-app)
  - [Express + MongoDB + JavaScript](https://github.com/mikro-orm/mikro-orm-examples/tree/master/express-js)

## Articles

- Introducing MikroORM, TypeScript data-mapper ORM with Identity Map
  - on [medium.com](https://medium.com/dailyjs/introducing-mikro-orm-typescript-data-mapper-orm-with-identity-map-9ba58d049e02)
  - on [dev.to](https://dev.to/b4nan/introducing-mikroorm-typescript-data-mapper-orm-with-identity-map-pc8)
- Handling transactions and concurrency in MikroORM
  - on [medium.com](https://medium.com/dailyjs/handling-transactions-and-concurrency-in-mikro-orm-ba80d0a65805)
  - on [dev.to](https://dev.to/b4nan/handling-transactions-and-concurrency-in-mikroorm-2cfj)

Commit message:

chore: add note about v2 docs

docs/index.md, after:

---
layout: homepage
---

[![NPM version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/mikro-orm.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mikro-orm)
[![Chat on slack](https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-on%20slack-blue.svg)](https://join.slack.com/t/mikroorm/shared_invite/enQtNTM1ODYzMzM4MDk3LTBmZDNlODBhYjcxNGZlMTkyYzJmODAwMDhjODc0ZTM2MzQ2Y2VkOGM0ODYzYTJjMDRiZDdjMmIxYjI2OTY0Y2U)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/mikro-orm.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mikro-orm)
[![Dependency Status](https://david-dm.org/mikro-orm/mikro-orm.svg)](https://david-dm.org/mikro-orm/mikro-orm)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/mikro-orm/mikro-orm.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/mikro-orm/mikro-orm)
[![Coverage Status](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/mikro-orm/mikro-orm.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/mikro-orm/mikro-orm?branch=master)
[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/27999651d3adc47cfa40/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/github/mikro-orm/mikro-orm/maintainability)

MikroORM is TypeScript ORM for Node.js based on Data Mapper, Unit of Work and Identity Map patterns.

Currently it supports MongoDB, MySQL, MariaDB, PostgreSQL and SQLite databases, but more can be 
supported via custom drivers right now. It has first class TypeScript support, while staying back 
compatible with Vanilla JavaScript.

> Heavily inspired by [Doctrine](https://www.doctrine-project.org/) and [Nextras Orm](https://nextras.org/orm/).

> You can browse MikroORM v2 docs at https://mikro-orm.github.io/docs/v2/.

> To upgrade to v3, please see the [upgrading guide](docs/upgrading-v2-to-v3.md).

## Table of contents

- Overview
  - [Installation & Usage](installation.md)
  - [Defining Entities](defining-entities.md)
  - [Persisting, Cascading and Fetching Entities with `EntityManager`](entity-manager.md)
  - [Using `EntityRepository` instead of `EntityManager`](repositories.md)
- Fundamentals
  - [Identity Map and Request Context](identity-map.md)
  - [Entity References and `Reference<T>` Wrapper](entity-references.md)
  - [Using Entity Constructors](entity-constructors.md)
  - [Modelling Relationships](relationships.md)
  - [Collections](collections.md)
  - [Unit of Work](unit-of-work.md)
  - [Transactions](transactions.md)
  - [Cascading persist and remove](cascading.md)
  - [Deployment](deployment.md)
- Advanced Features
  - [Smart Nested Populate](nested-populate.md)
  - [Smart Query Conditions](query-conditions.md)
  - [Using `QueryBuilder`](query-builder.md)
  - [Serializing](serializing.md)
  - [Updating Entity Values with `Entity.assign()`](entity-helper.md)
  - [Property Validation](property-validation.md)
  - [Lifecycle Hooks](lifecycle-hooks.md)
  - [Naming Strategy](naming-strategy.md)
  - [Metadata Providers](metadata-providers.md)
  - [Metadata Cache](metadata-cache.md)
  - [Debugging](debugging.md)
  - [Schema Generator](schema-generator.md)
  - [Entity Generator](entity-generator.md)
  - [Migrations](migrations.md)
  - [Read Replica Connections](read-connections.md)
- Usage with Different Drivers
  - [Usage with SQL Drivers](usage-with-sql.md)
  - [Usage with MongoDB](usage-with-mongo.md)
- Recipes
  - [Usage with NestJS](usage-with-nestjs.md)
  - [Usage with Vanilla JS](usage-with-js.md)
  - [Creating Custom Driver](custom-driver.md)
  - [Using Multiple Schemas](multiple-schemas.md)
- Example Integrations
  - [Express + MongoDB + TypeScript](https://github.com/mikro-orm/mikro-orm-examples/tree/master/express-ts)
  - [Nest + MySQL + TypeScript](https://github.com/mikro-orm/mikro-orm-examples/tree/master/nest)
  - [RealWorld example app (Nest + MySQL)](https://github.com/mikro-orm/nestjs-realworld-example-app)
  - [Express + MongoDB + JavaScript](https://github.com/mikro-orm/mikro-orm-examples/tree/master/express-js)

## Articles

- Introducing MikroORM, TypeScript data-mapper ORM with Identity Map
  - on [medium.com](https://medium.com/dailyjs/introducing-mikro-orm-typescript-data-mapper-orm-with-identity-map-9ba58d049e02)
  - on [dev.to](https://dev.to/b4nan/introducing-mikroorm-typescript-data-mapper-orm-with-identity-map-pc8)
- Handling transactions and concurrency in MikroORM
  - on [medium.com](https://medium.com/dailyjs/handling-transactions-and-concurrency-in-mikro-orm-ba80d0a65805)
  - on [dev.to](https://dev.to/b4nan/handling-transactions-and-concurrency-in-mikroorm-2cfj)
